The discovery initiative aims at exploring a new way of operating Utility
Computing (UC) resources. To overcome the lack of sustainable solutions that
can accommodate the ever increasing demand for computing resources, a
disruptive change in UC platforms is required: Locality  has to be considered
as a primary concern.  Instead of the current trend consisting of  building
larger and larger data centers in few strategical locations, the discovery
consortium proposes to leverage any facilities available through the Internet
in order to deliver widely distributed UC platforms that can better match the
geographical dispersal of users.

Although it involves radical changes in the way resources are managed,
leveraging computing resources close to the end-users is the only solution to
deliver a new generation of UC platforms, highly efficient and sustainable.
Critical to the emergence of such locality-based UC (LUC) platforms is the
availability of appropriate operating mechanisms.  The discovery initiative
aims at designing and implementing the premises of a unified system driving the
use of resources at an unprecedented scale by turning a complex and diverse
infrastructure into a collection of abstracted computing facilities that is
both easy to operate and reliable. 

Internet Service Providers (ISPs) as well as academic and private institutions in charge of operating a
part of the internet network will be able to build an extreme-scale LUC
platform with a limited additional cost by simply deploying the discovery
system through their infrastructure.

To reach such a goal, we propose a groundbreaking way of operating UC platforms
that leverages  autonomous, decentralized and self-organizing techniques. This
advance  will foster the emergence of LUC infrastructures and could greatly
benefit to European companies in taking over a market that will be enabled by
opening this new research area. 
